.if n .pH 386.readme @(#)readme	40.14
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
--------------------------- start readme ------------------------------------
UNIX* System V/386 Release 4 Version 4:  January, 1991


DOCUMENTATION DEPARTMENT:

This directory contains the Documentation provided with the
UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Version 4 Source Code Product.


TAPE CONTENTS
-------------
Book Directories:	Each document is contained in its own directory.
			See the Source Code Product Read Me First for a listing
			of the directories and the documents they contain.
			One of these directories, DOCTOOLS, contains the
			software and documentation for the documentation tools.

Information files:	

   readme		(this file)

   tape.contents	listing of all documentation files



HARDCOPY SUPPLIED WITH TAPE
---------------------------
Four printed documents are supplied with the source code product:

Installation Guide
	This document contains instructions on how to install the
	reference binary that accompanies the source code product.


Read Me First
	This document describes the major components of the source code
	product, the DOCTOOLS environment, and how to extract and print
	Release 4 books.


Software Notes
	This document identifies software changes and workarounds for
	the reference binary.


Source Code Product Build Instructions
	This document contains instructions on how to build and
	install the source code product software.


If you do not have the Read Me First, check with whoever unpacked
this product.  If they cannot locate the document, you will find
its files under the RMF directory.  Look at the files "intro" and
"doctape."  Though these files are not meant as on-line documentation
(they contain formatting macros), you can use the "cat" command to
read it and obtain the necessary information for setting up your
DOCTOOLS environment and printing the documents.  After setting up
your DOCTOOLS environment, print the Read Me First document.


USL STYLE GUIDE
---------------
The Style Guide used by the documentation department at USL has been
included on this tape.  It is found in the directory STYLE  and
is printed the same way as the rest of the documents, i.e., using
the DOCTOOLS "format" command.


NEW TAPE DIRECTORY STRUCTURE VERSION 4
--------------------------------------
There is a new directory structure on the tape for Version
4 (this was first introduced with the Version 3 Device
Driver Interface/Driver-Kernel Interface (DDI/DKI)
Reference Manual).

The tape structure has changed in two ways since Version 3.

First, the file organization has been changed to remove
file duplication.  Files are organized as before in
directories according to book title, which means that some
manual pages appear in more than one directory.  For
example, all manual pages for networking administration
appear in both the System Administrator's Reference Manual
and the Network User's and Administrator's Guide.

In Version 3 these files were exact duplicates.  Beginning
with the Version 4 MRD tapes, the files appear in both
directories but are linked.  This means that each file
exists physically only once on the MRD tape.

Second, we have reorganized the directory structure and
renamed files using the following rules:

o  Name directories consistently, based on the titles of the
   books they include.  Give directories mnemonic names
   including, if appropriate, one of the following suffixes:

      ag	administrator's guide
      g		guide
      pg	programmer's guide
      rm	reference manual
      rmf	read me first
      rn	release notes
      uag	user and administrator's guide
      ug	user's guide

o  Organize manual pages in directories named for the manual
   page sections (but use lower-case to make typing easier).

   For example, use 1, 1c, 1m, . . . 

o  Use machine-specific directory names (for example, 386) to
   hold machine-specific files, and put the machine-specific
   directories at the lowest level of organization to keep
   related files near each other in the file system.

o  If a book is not machine-specific, it need not be labeled
   generic, but if a book contains machine-specific as well as
   generic files, label the generic files as such (directory
   name gen).

o  Create subdirectories in multi-book volumes to avoid
   cluttering a directory with files on more than one major
   topic.

   For example, in the Network User's and Administrator's
   Guide we created separate subdirectories for the NFS
   material, the RFS material, and so on.

o  Group the books that are most release-specific under a
   single directory (release).

* UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories.
------------------------------ end readme -----------------------------------
