.if n .pH 386.intro @(#)intro	40.15 of 5/17/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.BK "Multibus Reference Manual"
.CH "Manual Overview" 1
.H 1 "Manual Overview"
This manual lists and describes commands and device drivers Intel
Corporation has added to the UNIX System V/386 Release 4 operating
system for Multibus II support.
These commands and drivers have been added to support the Intel
installation procedures for over-install and add-on products, to make
system administration simpler, and to interface with Intel devices.
.P
This manual is designed to supplement the following UNIX\(rg
System V/386 Release 4 documents:
.BT "Programmer's Reference Manual" ,
.BT "User's Reference Manual" ,
and the
.BT "System Administrators Reference Manual" .
.P
This manual is divided into eight chapters and three appendices:
.VL .75i 0.2i
.LI "Chapter 1.  Introduction"
Provides a manual overview, explains the organization, and describes
notational conventions.
.LI "Chapter 2.  Commands"
Alphabetically lists UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Multibus II commands.
.LI "Chapter 3.  Functions and Libraries"
Lists UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Multibus II functions that make up the
Interconnect Space Application Interface.
.LI "Chapter 4.  File Formats"
Lists UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Multibus II file formats.
.\" .LI "Chapter 5.  Device Drivers"
.\" Provides information for UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Multibus II devices.
.LI "Chapter 5.  Device Drivers"
Alphabetically lists and describes the UNIX System V/386 Release 4 Multibus II device drivers.
.LI "Chapter 6.  System Maintenance Commands"
Alphabetically lists UNIX System V/386 Release 4 system maintenance commands.
.LI "Chapter 7.  Static Bad Block Handling"
Describes those routines that compensate for the unusable blocks of a
hard disk drive.
.LI "Appendix A.  iSBX\(tm 279 Window Interface"
.LI "Appendix B.  Information Unique to Multibus II Systems"
.LI "Appendix C.  Related Publications"
.LE
.H 2 Organization
All entries are based on a format common to other UNIX reference manuals.
Not every section appears for every command.
.BL
.LI
The NAME section gives the name(s) of the entry and briefly states its purpose.
.LI
The SYNOPSIS section summarizes the use of the command.
.LI
The DESCRIPTION section describes the way the program works.
.LI
The EXAMPLES section gives examples of usage, where appropriate.
.LI
The FILES section lists files that are built into or affected by the command.
.LI
The NOTES section provides additional information regarding the use of
the command.
.LI
The SEE ALSO section provides a list of other relevant commands.
.LE
.H 2 "Notational Conventions"
The following notational conventions are used throughout this manual:
.VL
.LI \f4input\f1
User input, such as commands, command options, command arguments,
directory names, and file names appear in constant width.
In user-entry instructions, \f4Enter wd:\f1 means type the characters
wd, then press <RETURN>.
.LI \f4output\f1
System output, such as prompt signs and responses to commands, appear in
constant width type.
.LI \f2variable\f1
Names of variables to which values must be assigned (such as filename)
appear in italic.
.LI "command (#) or (# iref)"
Refers to a command, library call, or system call.
A command name followed by (#) refers to a command in the UNIX
System V manual set, or (# iref) refers to other references that
are in this manual.
.LE
